  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
HIGHLIGHTS OF PRESCRIBING INFORMATION 
These highlights do not include all the information needed to use 
ZOCOR safely and effectively. See full prescribing information for 
ZOCOR. 
ZOCOR (simvastatin) Tablets 
Initial U.S. Approval: 1991 
---------------------------RECENT MAJOR CHANGES ---------------------------
Dosage and Administration 
Coadministration with Other Drugs (2.3) XX/XXXX 
Contraindications (4) XX/XXXX 
Warnings and Precautions 
Myopathy/Rhabdomyolysis (5.1) 	 XX/XXXX 
----------------------------INDICATIONS AND USAGE ----------------------------
ZOCOR® is an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor (statin) indicated as an 
adjunctive therapy to diet to: 
•	 Reduce the risk of total mortality by reducing CHD deaths and 
reduce the risk of non-fatal myocardial infarction, stroke, and the 
need for revascularization procedures in patients at high risk of 
coronary events. (1.1) 
•	 Reduce elevated total-C, LDL-C, Apo B, TG and increase HDL-C in 
patients with primary hyperlipidemia (heterozygous familial and 
nonfamilial) and mixed dyslipidemia. (1.2) 
•	 Reduce elevated TG in patients with hypertriglyceridemia and 
reduce TG and VLDL-C in patients with primary dysbeta­
lipoproteinemia. (1.2)
•	 Reduce total-C and LDL-C in adult patients with homozygous 
familial hypercholesterolemia. (1.2)
•	 Reduce elevated total-C, LDL-C, and Apo B in boys and 
postmenarchal girls, 10 to 17 years of age with heterozygous familial 
hypercholesterolemia after failing an adequate trial of diet therapy. 
(1.2, 1.3)
Limitations of Use 
ZOCOR has not been studied in Fredrickson Types I and V 
dyslipidemias. (1.4)
----------------------- DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION------------------------
•	 Dose range is 5 to 40 mg/day. (2.1) 
•	 Recommended usual starting dose is 10 or 20 mg once a day in the 
evening. (2.1) 
•	 Recommended starting dose for patients at high risk of CHD is 
40 mg/day. (2.1) 
•	 Due to the increased risk of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis, 
use of the 80-mg dose of ZOCOR should be restricted to patients 
who have been taking simvastatin 80 mg chronically (e.g., for 
12 months or more) without evidence of muscle toxicity. (2.2) 
•	 Patients who are currently tolerating the 80-mg dose of ZOCOR who 
need to be initiated on an interacting drug that is contraindicated or 
is associated with a dose cap for simvastatin should be switched to 
an alternative statin with less potential for the drug-drug interaction. 
(2.2) 
•	 Due to the increased risk of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis, 
associated with the 80-mg dose of ZOCOR, patients unable to 
achieve their LDL-C goal utilizing the 40-mg dose of ZOCOR should 
not be titrated to the 80-mg dose, but should be placed on 
alternative LDL-C-lowering treatment(s) that provides greater LDL-C 
lowering. (2.2) 
•	 Adolescents (10-17 years of age) with HeFH: starting dose is 
10 mg/day; maximum recommended dose is 40 mg/day. (2.5) 
--------------------- DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS ---------------------
Tablets: 5 mg; 10 mg; 20 mg; 40 mg; 80 mg (3) 
-------------------------------CONTRAINDICATIONS -------------------------------
•	 Concomitant administration of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors. (4, 5.1) 
•	 Concomitant administration of gemfibrozil, cyclosporine, or danazol. 
(4, 5.1) 
•	 Hypersensitivity to any component of this medication. (4, 6.2) 
•	 Active liver disease, which may include unexplained persistent 
elevations in hepatic transaminase levels. (4, 5.2) 
•	 Women who are pregnant or may become pregnant. (4, 8.1) 
•	 Nursing mothers. (4, 8.3) 
------------------------WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS------------------------
•	 Patients should be advised of the increased risk of myopathy
including rhabdomyolysis with the 80-mg dose. (5.1)
•	 Skeletal muscle effects (e.g., myopathy and rhabdomyolysis): Risks 
increase with higher doses and concomitant use of certain 
medicines. Predisposing factors include advanced age (≥65), female 
gender, uncontrolled hypothyroidism, and renal impairment. (4, 5.1, 
8.5, 8.6) 
•	 Patients should be advised to report promptly any unexplained 
and/or persistent muscle pain, tenderness, or weakness. ZOCOR 
therapy should be discontinued immediately if myopathy is 
diagnosed or suspected. See Drug Interaction table. (5.1) 
•	 Liver enzyme abnormalities: Persistent elevations in hepatic 
transaminases can occur. Check liver enzyme tests before initiating 
therapy and as clinically indicated thereafter. (5.2) 
------------------------------ ADVERSE REACTIONS-------------------------------
Most common adverse reactions (incidence ≥5.0%) are: upper 
respiratory infection, headache, abdominal pain, constipation, and 
nausea. (6.1) 
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Merck 
Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc., at 1-877-
888-4231 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 
-------------------------------DRUG INTERACTIONS-------------------------------
Drug Interactions Associated with Increased Risk of 
Myopathy/Rhabdomyolysis (2.3, 4, 5.1, 7.1, 7.2, 7.3, 12.3) 
Interacting Agents Prescribing Recommendations 
Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors 
(e.g., itraconazole, 
ketoconazole, posaconazole, 
voriconazole, erythromycin, 
clarithromycin, telithromycin, 
HIV protease inhibitors, 
boceprevir, telaprevir, 
nefazodone), gemfibrozil, 
cyclosporine, danazol 
Contraindicated with simvastatin 
Verapamil, diltiazem, 
dronedarone 
Do not exceed 10 mg simvastatin 
daily
Amiodarone, amlodipine, 
ranolazine 
Do not exceed 20 mg simvastatin 
daily
Grapefruit juice Avoid grapefruit juice 
•	 Other Lipid-lowering Medications: Use with other fibrate products or 
lipid-modifying doses (≥1 g/day) of niacin increases the risk of 
adverse skeletal muscle effects. Caution should be used when 
prescribing with simvastatin. (5.1, 7.2, 7.4) 
•	 Coumarin anticoagulants: Concomitant use with ZOCOR prolongs 
INR. Achieve stable INR prior to starting ZOCOR. Monitor INR 
frequently until stable upon initiation or alteration of ZOCOR 
therapy. (7.6) 
----------------------- USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS -----------------------
•	 Severe renal impairment: patients should be started at 5 mg/day and 
be closely monitored. (2.6, 8.6) 
See 17 for PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION. 
 Revised: XX/XXXX 
FULL PRESCRIBING INFORMATION: CONTENTS* 

1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE 1.3 Adolescent Patients with Heterozygous Familial 

1.1 	 Reductions in Risk of CHD Mortality and Cardiovascular Hypercholesterolemia (HeFH) 
Events 1.4 Limitations of Use 
1.2 	Hyperlipidemia 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION 
2.1 	Recommended Dosing 
USPI-T-07331210 
Reference ID: 3209081 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                               
2.2 	 Restricted Dosing for 80 mg 
2.3 	 Coadministration with Other Drugs 
2.4 	 Patients with Homozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia 
2.5 	 Adolescents (10-17 years of age) with Heterozygous Familial 
Hypercholesterolemia 
2.6 	 Patients with Renal Impairment 
2.7 	 Chinese Patients Taking Lipid-Modifying Doses (≥1 g/day
Niacin) of Niacin-Containing Products  
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS 
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS 
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS 
5.1 	Myopathy/Rhabdomyolysis 
5.2 	Liver Dysfunction 
5.3 	Endocrine Function 
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS 
6.1 	 Clinical Trials Experience 
6.2 	Post-Marketing Experience 
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 
7.1 	 Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors, cyclosporine, or danazol 
7.2 	 Lipid-Lowering Drugs That Can Cause Myopathy When 
Given Alone 
7.3 	 Amiodarone, Dronedarone, Ranolazine, or Calcium Channel 
Blockers
7.4 	Niacin 
7.5 	Digoxin 
7.6 	Coumarin Anticoagulants 
7.7 	Colchicine 
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 
8.1 	Pregnancy
8.3 	Nursing Mothers 
8.4 	Pediatric Use 
8.5 	Geriatric Use 
8.6 	Renal Impairment 
8.7 	Hepatic Impairment 
10 OVERDOSAGE
11 DESCRIPTION 
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 
12.1 	 Mechanism of Action 
12.2 Pharmacodynamics 
12.3 Pharmacokinetics 
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 
13.1 Carcinogenesis, Mutagenesis, Impairment of Fertility
13.2 	 Animal Toxicology and/or Pharmacology
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 
14.1 	 Clinical Studies in Adults 
14.2 	 Clinical Studies in Adolescents 
16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING 
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION 
17.1 Muscle Pain 
17.2 Liver Enzymes 
17.3 Pregnancy
17.4 Breastfeeding 
*Sections or subsections omitted from the full prescribing information 
are not listed. 
FULL PRESCRIBING INFORMATION 
1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE 
Therapy with lipid-altering agents should be only one component of multiple risk factor intervention in 
individuals at significantly increased risk for atherosclerotic vascular disease due to 
hypercholesterolemia. Drug therapy is indicated as an adjunct to diet when the response to a diet 
restricted in saturated fat and cholesterol and other nonpharmacologic measures alone has been 
inadequate. In patients with coronary heart disease (CHD) or at high risk of CHD, ZOCOR1 can be started 
simultaneously with diet. 
1.1 Reductions in Risk of CHD Mortality and Cardiovascular Events
In patients at high risk of coronary events because of existing coronary heart disease, diabetes, 
peripheral vessel disease, history of stroke or other cerebrovascular disease, ZOCOR is indicated to: 
•	 Reduce the risk of total mortality by reducing CHD deaths. 
•	 Reduce the risk of non-fatal myocardial infarction and stroke. 
•	 Reduce the need for coronary and non-coronary revascularization procedures. 
1.2 Hyperlipidemia 
ZOCOR is indicated to: 
•	 Reduce elevated total cholesterol (total-C), low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C), 
apolipoprotein B (Apo B), and triglycerides (TG), and to increase high-density lipoprotein 
cholesterol (HDL-C) in patients with primary hyperlipidemia (Fredrickson type IIa, heterozygous 
familial and nonfamilial) or mixed dyslipidemia (Fredrickson type IIb). 
•	 Reduce elevated TG in patients with hypertriglyceridemia (Fredrickson type lV hyperlipidemia). 
•	 Reduce elevated TG and VLDL-C in patients with primary dysbetalipoproteinemia (Fredrickson 
type lll hyperlipidemia). 
•	 Reduce total-C and LDL-C in patients with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia as an 
adjunct to other lipid-lowering treatments (e.g., LDL apheresis) or if such treatments are 
unavailable. 
1.3 Adolescent Patients with Heterozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia (HeFH)
ZOCOR is indicated as an adjunct to diet to reduce total-C, LDL-C, and Apo B levels in adolescent 
boys and girls who are at least one year post-menarche, 10-17 years of age, with HeFH, if after an 
adequate trial of diet therapy the following findings are present: 
1 Registered trademark of Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc.
Copyright © 1999-XXXX Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc.
All rights reserved 
USPI-T-07331210 	2 

Reference ID: 3209081 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
1. 	 LDL cholesterol remains ≥190 mg/dL; or 
2. 	 LDL cholesterol remains ≥160 mg/dL and 
•	 There is a positive family history of premature cardiovascular disease (CVD) or 
•	 Two or more other CVD risk factors are present in the adolescent patient. 
The minimum goal of treatment in pediatric and adolescent patients is to achieve a mean LDL-C 
<130 mg/dL. The optimal age at which to initiate lipid-lowering therapy to decrease the risk of 
symptomatic adulthood CAD has not been determined. 
1.4 Limitations of Use 
ZOCOR has not been studied in conditions where the major abnormality is elevation of chylomicrons 
(i.e., hyperlipidemia Fredrickson types I and V). 
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION 
2.1 Recommended Dosing
The usual dosage range is 5 to 40 mg/day. In patients with CHD or at high risk of CHD, ZOCOR can 
be started simultaneously with diet. The recommended usual starting dose is 10 or 20 mg once a day in 
the evening. For patients at high risk for a CHD event due to existing CHD, diabetes, peripheral vessel 
disease, history of stroke or other cerebrovascular disease, the recommended starting dose is 
40 mg/day. Lipid determinations should be performed after 4 weeks of therapy and periodically thereafter.  
2.2 Restricted Dosing for 80 mg 
Due to the increased risk of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis, particularly during the first year of 
treatment, use of the 80-mg dose of ZOCOR should be restricted to patients who have been taking 
simvastatin 80 mg chronically (e.g., for 12 months or more) without evidence of muscle toxicity [see 
Warnings and Precautions (5.1)].
Patients who are currently tolerating the 80-mg dose of ZOCOR who need to be initiated on an 
interacting drug that is contraindicated or is associated with a dose cap for simvastatin should be 
switched to an alternative statin with less potential for the drug-drug interaction. 
Due to the increased risk of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis, associated with the 80-mg dose of 
ZOCOR, patients unable to achieve their LDL-C goal utilizing the 40-mg dose of ZOCOR should not be 
titrated to the 80-mg dose, but should be placed on alternative LDL-C-lowering treatment(s) that provides 
greater LDL-C lowering. 
2.3 Coadministration with Other Drugs 
Patients taking Verapamil, Diltiazem, or Dronedarone
•	 The dose of ZOCOR should not exceed 10 mg/day [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1), Drug 
Interactions (7.3), and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)].
 
Patients taking Amiodarone, Amlodipine or Ranolazine
 
•	 The dose of ZOCOR should not exceed 20 mg/day [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1), Drug 
Interactions (7.3), and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)].
2.4 Patients with Homozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia
The recommended dosage is 40 mg/day in the evening [see Dosage and Administration, Restricted 
Dosing for 80 mg (2.2)]. ZOCOR should be used as an adjunct to other lipid-lowering treatments (e.g., 
LDL apheresis) in these patients or if such treatments are unavailable. 
2.5 Adolescents (10-17 years of age) with Heterozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia
The recommended usual starting dose is 10 mg once a day in the evening. The recommended dosing 
range is 10 to 40 mg/day; the maximum recommended dose is 40 mg/day. Doses should be 
individualized according to the recommended goal of therapy [see NCEP Pediatric Panel Guidelines2 and 
Clinical Studies (14.2)]. Adjustments should be made at intervals of 4 weeks or more. 
2.6 Patients with Renal Impairment
Because ZOCOR does not undergo significant renal excretion, modification of dosage should not be 
necessary in patients with mild to moderate renal impairment. However, caution should be exercised 
when ZOCOR is administered to patients with severe renal impairment; such patients should be started 
2	 National Cholesterol Education Program (NCEP): Highlights of the Report of the Expert Panel on Blood Cholesterol Levels in 
Children and Adolescents. Pediatrics. 89(3):495-501. 1992. 
USPI-T-07331210 	3 
Reference ID: 3209081 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
at 5 mg/day and be closely monitored [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Clinical Pharmacology 
(12.3)]. 
2.7 	 Chinese Patients Taking Lipid-Modifying Doses (≥1 g/day Niacin) of Niacin-Containing 
Products 
Because of an increased risk for myopathy in Chinese patients taking simvastatin 40 mg 
coadministered with lipid-modifying doses (≥1 g/day niacin) of niacin-containing products, caution should 
be used when treating Chinese patients with simvastatin doses exceeding 20 mg/day coadministered 
with lipid-modifying doses of niacin-containing products. Because the risk for myopathy is dose-related, 
Chinese patients should not receive simvastatin 80 mg coadministered with lipid-modifying doses of 
niacin-containing products. The cause of the increased risk of myopathy is not known. It is also unknown 
if the risk for myopathy with coadministration of simvastatin with lipid-modifying doses of niacin-containing 
products observed in Chinese patients applies to other Asian patients. [See Warnings and Precautions 
(5.1).]
3 	 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS 
•	 Tablets ZOCOR 5 mg are buff, oval, film-coated tablets, coded MSD 726 on one side and ZOCOR 5 
on the other. 
•	 Tablets ZOCOR 10 mg are peach, oval, film-coated tablets, coded MSD 735 on one side and plain on 
the other. 
•	 Tablets ZOCOR 20 mg are tan, oval, film-coated tablets, coded MSD 740 on one side and plain on 
the other. 
•	 Tablets ZOCOR 40 mg are brick red, oval, film-coated tablets, coded MSD 749 on one side and plain 
on the other. 
•	 Tablets ZOCOR 80 mg are brick red, capsule-shaped, film-coated tablets, coded 543 on one side 
and 80 on the other. 
4 	CONTRAINDICATIONS 
ZOCOR is contraindicated in the following conditions: 
•	 Concomitant administration of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., itraconazole, ketoconazole, 
posaconazole, voriconazole, HIV protease inhibitors, boceprevir, telaprevir, erythromycin, 
clarithromycin, telithromycin and nefazodone) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)].
•	 Concomitant administration of gemfibrozil, cyclosporine, or danazol [see Warnings and Precautions 
(5.1)].
•	 Hypersensitivity to any component of this medication [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. 
•	 Active liver disease, which may include unexplained persistent elevations in hepatic transaminase 
levels [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)].
•	 Women who are pregnant or may become pregnant. Serum cholesterol and triglycerides increase 
during normal pregnancy, and cholesterol or cholesterol derivatives are essential for fetal 
development. Because HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (statins) decrease cholesterol synthesis and 
possibly the synthesis of other biologically active substances derived from cholesterol, ZOCOR may 
cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman. Atherosclerosis is a chronic process and 
the discontinuation of lipid-lowering drugs during pregnancy should have little impact on the outcome 
of long-term therapy of primary hypercholesterolemia. There are no adequate and well-controlled 
studies of use with ZOCOR during pregnancy; however, in rare reports congenital anomalies were 
observed following intrauterine exposure to statins. In rat and rabbit animal reproduction studies, 
simvastatin revealed no evidence of teratogenicity. ZOCOR should be administered to women of 
childbearing age only when such patients are highly unlikely to conceive. If the patient 
becomes pregnant while taking this drug, ZOCOR should be discontinued immediately and the 
patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus [see Use in Specific Populations (8.1)]. 
•	 Nursing mothers. It is not known whether simvastatin is excreted into human milk; however, a small 
amount of another drug in this class does pass into breast milk. Because statins have the potential for 
serious adverse reactions in nursing infants, women who require treatment with ZOCOR should not 
breastfeed their infants [see Use in Specific Populations (8.3)]. 
USPI-T-07331210 	4 
Reference ID: 3209081 
  
 
 
  
 
 
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS 
5.1 Myopathy/Rhabdomyolysis 
Simvastatin occasionally causes myopathy manifested as muscle pain, tenderness or weakness with 
creatine kinase (CK) above ten times the upper limit of normal (ULN). Myopathy sometimes takes the 
form of rhabdomyolysis with or without acute renal failure secondary to myoglobinuria, and rare fatalities 
have occurred. The risk of myopathy is increased by high levels of statin activity in plasma. Predisposing 
factors for myopathy include advanced age (≥65 years), female gender, uncontrolled hypothyroidism, and 
renal impairment. 
The risk of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis, is dose related. In a clinical trial database in 
which 41,413 patients were treated with ZOCOR, 24,747 (approximately 60%) of whom were enrolled in 
studies with a median follow-up of at least 4 years, the incidence of myopathy was approximately 0.03% 
and 0.08% at 20 and 40 mg/day, respectively. The incidence of myopathy with 80 mg (0.61%) was 
disproportionately higher than that observed at the lower doses. In these trials, patients were carefully 
monitored and some interacting medicinal products were excluded. 
In a clinical trial in which 12,064 patients with a history of myocardial infarction were treated with 
ZOCOR (mean follow-up 6.7 years), the incidence of myopathy (defined as unexplained muscle 
weakness or pain with a serum creatine kinase [CK] >10 times upper limit of normal [ULN]) in patients on 
80 mg/day was approximately 0.9% compared with 0.02% for patients on 20 mg/day. The incidence of 
rhabdomyolysis (defined as myopathy with a CK >40 times ULN) in patients on 80 mg/day was 
approximately 0.4% compared with 0% for patients on 20 mg/day.  The incidence of myopathy, including 
rhabdomyolysis, was highest during the first year and then notably decreased during the subsequent 
years of treatment. In this trial, patients were carefully monitored and some interacting medicinal products 
were excluded. 
The risk of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis, is greater in patients on simvastatin 80 mg 
compared with other statin therapies with similar or greater LDL-C-lowering efficacy and 
compared with lower doses of simvastatin. Therefore, the 80-mg dose of ZOCOR should be used 
only in patients who have been taking simvastatin 80 mg chronically (e.g., for 12 months or more) 
without evidence of muscle toxicity [see Dosage and Administration, Restricted Dosing for 80 mg 
(2.2)]. If, however, a patient who is currently tolerating the 80-mg dose of ZOCOR needs to be 
initiated on an interacting drug that is contraindicated or is associated with a dose cap for 
simvastatin, that patient should be switched to an alternative statin with less potential for the 
drug-drug interaction. Patients should be advised of the increased risk of myopathy, including 
rhabdomyolysis, and to report promptly any unexplained muscle pain, tenderness or weakness. If 
symptoms occur, treatment should be discontinued immediately. [See Warnings and Precautions 
(5.2).] 
There have been rare reports of immune-mediated necrotizing myopathy (IMNM), an autoimmune 
myopathy, associated with statin use. IMNM is characterized by: proximal muscle weakness and elevated 
serum creatine kinase, which persist despite discontinuation of statin treatment; muscle biopsy showing 
necrotizing myopathy without significant inflammation; improvement with immunosuppressive agents. 
All patients starting therapy with ZOCOR, or whose dose of ZOCOR is being increased, should 
be advised of the risk of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis, and told to report promptly any
unexplained muscle pain, tenderness or weakness particularly if accompanied by malaise or fever 
or if muscle signs and symptoms persist after discontinuing ZOCOR. ZOCOR therapy should be 
discontinued immediately if myopathy is diagnosed or suspected. In most cases, muscle symptoms 
and CK increases resolved when treatment was promptly discontinued. Periodic CK determinations may 
be considered in patients starting therapy with ZOCOR or whose dose is being increased, but there is no 
assurance that such monitoring will prevent myopathy. 
Many of the patients who have developed rhabdomyolysis on therapy with simvastatin have had 
complicated medical histories, including renal insufficiency usually as a consequence of long-standing 
diabetes mellitus. Such patients merit closer monitoring. ZOCOR therapy should be discontinued if 
markedly elevated CPK levels occur or myopathy is diagnosed or suspected. ZOCOR therapy should 
also be temporarily withheld in any patient experiencing an acute or serious condition predisposing to the 
development of renal failure secondary to rhabdomyolysis, e.g., sepsis; hypotension; major surgery; 
trauma; severe metabolic, endocrine, or electrolyte disorders; or uncontrolled epilepsy. 
USPI-T-07331210 5 
Reference ID: 3209081 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
Drug Interactions 
The risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis is increased by high levels of statin activity in plasma. 
Simvastatin is metabolized by the cytochrome P450 isoform 3A4. Certain drugs which inhibit this 
metabolic pathway can raise the plasma levels of simvastatin and may increase the risk of myopathy. 
These include itraconazole, ketoconazole, posaconazole, voriconazole, the macrolide antibiotics 
erythromycin and clarithromycin, and the ketolide antibiotic telithromycin, HIV protease inhibitors, 
boceprevir, telaprevir, the antidepressant nefazodone, or grapefruit juice [see Clinical Pharmacology 
(12.3)]. Combination of these drugs with simvastatin is contraindicated. If short-term treatment with strong 
CYP3A4 inhibitors is unavoidable, therapy with simvastatin must be suspended during the course of 
treatment. [See Contraindications (4) and Drug Interactions (7.1).]
The combined use of simvastatin with gemfibrozil, cyclosporine, or danazol is contraindicated [see 
Contraindications (4) and Drug Interactions (7.1 and 7.2)]. 
Caution should be used when prescribing other fibrates with simvastatin, as these agents can cause 
myopathy when given alone and the risk is increased when they are co-administered [see Drug 
Interactions (7.2)]. 
Cases of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis, have been reported with simvastatin coadministered 
with colchicine, and caution should be exercised when prescribing simvastatin with colchicine [see Drug 
Interactions (7.7)]. 
The benefits of the combined use of simvastatin with the following drugs should be carefully weighed 
against the potential risks of combinations: other lipid-lowering drugs (other fibrates or ≥1 g/day of niacin), 
amiodarone, dronedarone, verapamil, diltiazem, amlodipine, or ranolazine [see Drug Interactions (7.3) 
and Table 3 in Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 
Cases of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis, have been observed with simvastatin coadministered 
with lipid-modifying doses (≥1 g/day niacin) of niacin-containing products. In an ongoing, double-blind, 
randomized cardiovascular outcomes trial, an independent safety monitoring committee identified that the 
incidence of myopathy is higher in Chinese compared with non-Chinese patients taking simvastatin 40 
mg coadministered with lipid-modifying doses of a niacin-containing product. Caution should be used 
when treating Chinese patients with simvastatin in doses exceeding 20 mg/day coadministered with lipid-
modifying doses of niacin-containing products. Because the risk for myopathy is dose-related, Chinese 
patients should not receive simvastatin 80 mg coadministered with lipid-modifying doses of niacin-
containing products. It is unknown if the risk for myopathy with coadministration of simvastatin with 
lipid-modifying doses of niacin-containing products observed in Chinese patients applies to other Asian 
patients [see Drug Interactions (7.4)]. 
Prescribing recommendations for interacting agents are summarized in Table 1 [see also Dosage and 
Administration (2.3), Drug Interactions (7), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 
USPI-T-07331210 6 

Reference ID: 3209081 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE 1 

Drug Interactions Associated with Increased  

Risk of Myopathy/Rhabdomyolysis 

Interacting Agents Prescribing Recommendations 
Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors, e.g.: 
Itraconazole 
Ketoconazole 
Posaconazole 
Voriconazole 
Erythromycin 
Clarithromycin 
Telithromycin 
HIV protease inhibitors 
Boceprevir 
Telaprevir 
Nefazodone 
Gemfibrozil 
Cyclosporine 
Danazol 
Contraindicated with simvastatin 
Verapamil 
Diltiazem 
Dronedarone 
Do not exceed 10 mg simvastatin daily
Amiodarone 
Amlodipine 
Ranolazine 
Do not exceed 20 mg simvastatin daily
Grapefruit juice Avoid grapefruit juice  
5.2 Liver Dysfunction
Persistent increases (to more than 3X the ULN) in serum transaminases have occurred in 
approximately 1% of patients who received simvastatin in clinical studies. When drug treatment 
was interrupted or discontinued in these patients, the transaminase levels usually fell slowly to 
pretreatment levels. The increases were not associated with jaundice or other clinical signs or symptoms. 
There was no evidence of hypersensitivity. 
In the Scandinavian Simvastatin Survival Study (4S) [see Clinical Studies (14.1)], the number of 
patients with more than one transaminase elevation to >3X ULN, over the course of the study, was not 
significantly different between the simvastatin and placebo groups (14 [0.7%] vs. 12 [0.6%]). Elevated 
transaminases resulted in the discontinuation of 8 patients from therapy in the simvastatin group 
(n=2,221) and 5 in the placebo group (n=2,223). Of the 1,986 simvastatin treated patients in 4S with 
normal liver function tests (LFTs) at baseline, 8 (0.4%) developed consecutive LFT elevations to >3X 
ULN and/or were discontinued due to transaminase elevations during the 5.4 years (median follow-up) of 
the study. Among these 8 patients, 5 initially developed these abnormalities within the first year. All of the 
patients in this study received a starting dose of 20 mg of simvastatin; 37% were titrated to 40 mg. 
In 2 controlled clinical studies in 1,105 patients, the 12-month incidence of persistent hepatic 
transaminase elevation without regard to drug relationship was 0.9% and 2.1% at the 40- and 80-mg 
dose, respectively. No patients developed persistent liver function abnormalities following the initial 
6 months of treatment at a given dose. 
It is recommended that liver function tests be performed before the initiation of treatment, and 
thereafter when clinically indicated. There have been rare postmarketing reports of fatal and non-fatal 
hepatic failure in patients taking statins, including simvastatin. If serious liver injury with clinical symptoms 
and/or hyperbilirubinemia or jaundice occurs during treatment with ZOCOR, promptly interrupt therapy. If 
an alternate etiology is not found do not restart ZOCOR. Note that ALT may emanate from muscle, 
therefore ALT rising with CK may indicate myopathy [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)].
The drug should be used with caution in patients who consume substantial quantities of alcohol and/or 
have a past history of liver disease. Active liver diseases or unexplained transaminase elevations are 
contraindications to the use of simvastatin. 
As with other lipid-lowering agents, moderate (less than 3X ULN) elevations of serum transaminases 
have been reported following therapy with simvastatin. These changes appeared soon after initiation of 
therapy with simvastatin, were often transient, were not accompanied by any symptoms and did not 
require interruption of treatment. 
USPI-T-07331210 7 

Reference ID: 3209081 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
 
  
 
   
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
5.3 Endocrine Function
Increases in HbA1c and fasting serum glucose levels have been reported with HMG-CoA reductase 
inhibitors, including ZOCOR. 
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS 
6.1 Clinical Trials Experience
Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates 
observed in the clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical studies of 
another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. 
In the pre-marketing controlled clinical studies and their open extensions (2,423 patients with median 
duration of follow-up of approximately 18 months), 1.4% of patients were discontinued due to adverse 
reactions. The most common adverse reactions that led to treatment discontinuation were: 
gastrointestinal disorders (0.5%), myalgia (0.1%), and arthralgia (0.1%). The most commonly reported 
adverse reactions (incidence ≥5%) in simvastatin controlled clinical trials were: upper respiratory 
infections (9.0%), headache (7.4%), abdominal pain (7.3%), constipation (6.6%), and nausea (5.4%). 
Scandinavian Simvastatin Survival Study 
In 4S involving 4,444 (age range 35-71 years, 19% women, 100% Caucasians) treated with 
20-40 mg/day of ZOCOR (n=2,221) or placebo (n=2,223) over a median of 5.4 years, adverse reactions 
reported in ≥2% of patients and at a rate greater than placebo are shown in Table 2. 
TABLE 2 

 Adverse Reactions Reported Regardless of Causality by ≥2% of Patients Treated 

with ZOCOR and Greater than Placebo in 4S 

ZOCOR Placebo 
(N = 2,221) (N = 2,223) 
% % 
Body as a Whole
 Edema/swelling 2.7 2.3 

 Abdominal pain 5.9 5.8 

Cardiovascular System Disorders
 Atrial fibrillation 5.7 5.1 
Digestive System Disorders
 Constipation 2.2 1.6 

Gastritis 4.9 3.9 

Endocrine Disorders
 Diabetes mellitus 4.2 3.6 
Musculoskeletal Disorders
 Myalgia 3.7 3.2 
Nervous System/ Psychiatric 

Disorders

 Headache 2.5 2.1 
 Insomnia 4.0 3.8 
Vertigo 4.5 4.2 
Respiratory System Disorders
Bronchitis 6.6 6.3 

Sinusitis 2.3 1.8 

Skin / Skin Appendage Disorders 
Eczema 4.5 3.0 
Urogenital System Disorders 
Infection, urinary tract 3.2 3.1 
Heart Protection Study 
In the Heart Protection Study (HPS), involving 20,536 patients (age range 40-80 years, 25% women, 
97% Caucasians, 3% other races) treated with ZOCOR 40 mg/day (n=10,269) or placebo (n=10,267) 
over a mean of 5 years, only serious adverse reactions and discontinuations due to any adverse 
reactions were recorded. Discontinuation rates due to adverse reactions were 4.8% in patients treated 
with ZOCOR compared with 5.1% in patients treated with placebo. The incidence of 
myopathy/rhabdomyolysis was <0.1% in patients treated with ZOCOR.  
Other Clinical Studies 
In a clinical trial in which 12,064 patients with a history of myocardial infarction were treated with 
ZOCOR (mean follow-up 6.7 years), the incidence of myopathy (defined as unexplained muscle 
weakness or pain with a serum creatine kinase [CK] >10 times upper limit of normal [ULN]) in patients on 
80 mg/day was approximately 0.9% compared with 0.02% for patients on 20 mg/day. The incidence of 
rhabdomyolysis (defined as myopathy with a CK >40 times ULN) in patients on 80 mg/day was 
USPI-T-07331210 8 

Reference ID: 3209081 
  
 
 
 
 
approximately 0.4% compared with 0% for patients on 20 mg/day. The incidence of myopathy, including 
rhabdomyolysis, was highest during the first year and then notably decreased during the subsequent 
years of treatment. In this trial, patients were carefully monitored and some interacting medicinal products 
were excluded. 
Other adverse reactions reported in clinical trials were: diarrhea, rash, dyspepsia, flatulence, and 
asthenia. 
Laboratory Tests 
Marked persistent increases of hepatic transaminases have been noted [see Warnings and 
Precautions (5.2)]. Elevated alkaline phosphatase and γ-glutamyl transpeptidase have also been 
reported. About 5% of patients had elevations of CK levels of 3 or more times the normal value on one or 
more occasions. This was attributable to the noncardiac fraction of CK. [See Warnings and Precautions 
(5.1).]
Adolescent Patients (ages 10-17 years) 
In a 48-week, controlled study in adolescent boys and girls who were at least 1 year post-menarche, 
10-17 years of age (43.4% female, 97.7% Caucasians, 1.7% Hispanics, 0.6% Multiracial) with 
heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (n=175), treated with placebo or ZOCOR (10-40 mg daily), 
the most common adverse reactions observed in both groups were upper respiratory infection, headache, 
abdominal pain, and nausea [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4) and Clinical Studies (14.2)]. 
6.2 Post-Marketing Experience 
Because the below reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is generally 
not possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. The 
following additional adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of simvastatin: 
pruritus, alopecia, a variety of skin changes (e.g., nodules, discoloration, dryness of skin/mucous 
membranes, changes to hair/nails), dizziness, muscle cramps, myalgia, pancreatitis, paresthesia, 
peripheral neuropathy, vomiting, anemia, erectile dysfunction, interstitial lung disease, rhabdomyolysis, 
hepatitis/jaundice, fatal and non-fatal hepatic failure, and depression. 
There have been rare reports of immune-mediated necrotizing myopathy associated with statin use 
[see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. 
An apparent hypersensitivity syndrome has been reported rarely which has included some of the 
following features: anaphylaxis, angioedema, lupus erythematous-like syndrome, polymyalgia 
rheumatica, dermatomyositis, vasculitis, purpura, thrombocytopenia, leukopenia, hemolytic anemia, 
positive ANA, ESR increase, eosinophilia, arthritis, arthralgia, urticaria, asthenia, photosensitivity, fever, 
chills, flushing, malaise, dyspnea, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, including Stevens-
Johnson syndrome. 
There have been rare postmarketing reports of cognitive impairment (e.g., memory loss, forgetfulness, 
amnesia, memory impairment, confusion) associated with statin use. These cognitive issues have been 
reported for all statins. The reports are generally nonserious, and reversible upon statin discontinuation, 
with variable times to symptom onset (1 day to years) and symptom resolution (median of 3 weeks). 
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 
7.1 Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors, cyclosporine, or danazol
Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors: Simvastatin, like several other inhibitors of HMG-CoA reductase, is a 
substrate of CYP3A4. Simvastatin is metabolized by CYP3A4 but has no CYP3A4 inhibitory activity; 
therefore it is not expected to affect the plasma concentrations of other drugs metabolized by CYP3A4.  
Elevated plasma levels of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitory activity increases the risk of myopathy and 
rhabdomyolysis, particularly with higher doses of simvastatin. [See Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and 
Clinical Pharmacology (12.3).] Concomitant use of drugs labeled as having a strong inhibitory effect on 
CYP3A4 is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4)]. If treatment with itraconazole, ketoconazole, 
posaconazole, voriconazole, erythromycin, clarithromycin or telithromycin is unavoidable, therapy with 
simvastatin must be suspended during the course of treatment. 
Cyclosporine or Danazol: The risk of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis is increased by concomitant 
administration of cyclosporine or danazol. Therefore, concomitant use of these drugs is contraindicated. 
[see Contraindications (4), Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)].
USPI-T-07331210 9 

Reference ID: 3209081 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
7.2 Lipid-Lowering Drugs That Can Cause Myopathy When Given Alone
Gemfibrozil: Contraindicated with simvastatin [see Contraindications (4) and Warnings and 
Precautions (5.1)].
Other fibrates: Caution should be used when prescribing with simvastatin [see Warnings and 
Precautions (5.1)]. 
7.3 Amiodarone, Dronedarone, Ranolazine, or Calcium Channel Blockers
The risk of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis, is increased by concomitant administration of 
amiodarone, dronedarone, ranolazine, or calcium channel blockers such as verapamil, diltiazem, or 
amlodipine [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) and Warnings and Precautions (5.1), and Table 3 in 
Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 
7.4 Niacin 
Cases of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis have been observed with simvastatin coadministered with 
lipid-modifying doses (≥1 g/day niacin) of niacin-containing products. In particular, caution should be used 
when treating Chinese patients with simvastatin doses exceeding 20 mg/day coadministered with 
lipid-modifying doses of niacin-containing products. Because the risk for myopathy is dose-related, 
Chinese patients should not receive simvastatin 80 mg coadministered with lipid-modifying doses of 
niacin-containing products. [See Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3).]
7.5 Digoxin 
In one study, concomitant administration of digoxin with simvastatin resulted in a slight elevation in 
digoxin concentrations in plasma. Patients taking digoxin should be monitored appropriately when 
simvastatin is initiated [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 
7.6 Coumarin Anticoagulants 
In two clinical studies, one in normal volunteers and the other in hypercholesterolemic patients, 
simvastatin 20-40 mg/day modestly potentiated the effect of coumarin anticoagulants: the prothrombin 
time, reported as International Normalized Ratio (INR), increased from a baseline of 1.7 to 1.8 and from 
2.6 to 3.4 in the volunteer and patient studies, respectively. With other statins, clinically evident bleeding 
and/or increased prothrombin time has been reported in a few patients taking coumarin anticoagulants 
concomitantly. In such patients, prothrombin time should be determined before starting simvastatin and 
frequently enough during early therapy to ensure that no significant alteration of prothrombin time occurs. 
Once a stable prothrombin time has been documented, prothrombin times can be monitored at the 
intervals usually recommended for patients on coumarin anticoagulants. If the dose of simvastatin is 
changed or discontinued, the same procedure should be repeated. Simvastatin therapy has not been 
associated with bleeding or with changes in prothrombin time in patients not taking anticoagulants. 
7.7 Colchicine 
Cases of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis, have been reported with simvastatin coadministered 
with colchicine, and caution should be exercised when prescribing simvastatin with colchicine. 
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 
8.1 Pregnancy
Pregnancy Category X [See Contraindications (4).] 
ZOCOR is contraindicated in women who are or may become pregnant. Lipid lowering drugs offer no 
benefit during pregnancy, because cholesterol and cholesterol derivatives are needed for normal fetal 
development. Atherosclerosis is a chronic process, and discontinuation of lipid-lowering drugs during 
pregnancy should have little impact on long-term outcomes of primary hypercholesterolemia therapy. 
There are no adequate and well-controlled studies of use with ZOCOR during pregnancy; however, there 
are rare reports of congenital anomalies in infants exposed to statins in utero. Animal reproduction 
studies of simvastatin in rats and rabbits showed no evidence of teratogenicity. Serum cholesterol and 
triglycerides increase during normal pregnancy, and cholesterol or cholesterol derivatives are essential 
for fetal development. Because statins decrease cholesterol synthesis and possibly the synthesis of other 
biologically active substances derived from cholesterol, ZOCOR may cause fetal harm when 
administered to a pregnant woman. If ZOCOR is used during pregnancy or if the patient becomes 
pregnant while taking this drug, the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus. 
USPI-T-07331210 10 

Reference ID: 3209081 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
                                                     
 
 
There are rare reports of congenital anomalies following intrauterine exposure to statins. In a review3 
of approximately 100 prospectively followed pregnancies in women exposed to simvastatin or another 
structurally related statin, the incidences of congenital anomalies, spontaneous abortions, and fetal 
deaths/stillbirths did not exceed those expected in the general population. However, the study was only 
able to exclude a 3- to 4-fold increased risk of congenital anomalies over the background rate. In 89% of 
these cases, drug treatment was initiated prior to pregnancy and was discontinued during the first 
trimester when pregnancy was identified. 
Simvastatin was not teratogenic in rats or rabbits at doses (25, 10 mg/kg/day, respectively) that 
resulted in 3 times the human exposure based on mg/m2 surface area. However, in studies with another 
structurally-related statin, skeletal malformations were observed in rats and mice. 
Women of childbearing potential, who require treatment with ZOCOR for a lipid disorder, should be 
advised to use effective contraception. For women trying to conceive, discontinuation of ZOCOR should 
be considered. If pregnancy occurs, ZOCOR should be immediately discontinued. 
8.3 Nursing Mothers 
It is not known whether simvastatin is excreted in human milk. Because a small amount of another 
drug in this class is excreted in human milk and because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in 
nursing infants, women taking simvastatin should not nurse their infants. A decision should be made 
whether to discontinue nursing or discontinue drug, taking into account the importance of the drug to the 
mother [see Contraindications (4)]. 
8.4 Pediatric Use
Safety and effectiveness of simvastatin in patients 10-17 years of age with heterozygous familial 
hypercholesterolemia have been evaluated in a controlled clinical trial in adolescent boys and in girls who 
were at least 1 year post-menarche. Patients treated with simvastatin had an adverse reaction profile 
similar to that of patients treated with placebo. Doses greater than 40 mg have not been studied in 
this population. In this limited controlled study, there was no significant effect on growth or sexual 
maturation in the adolescent boys or girls, or on menstrual cycle length in girls. [See Dosage and 
Administration (2.5), Adverse Reactions (6.1), Clinical Studies (14.2).] Adolescent females should be 
counseled on appropriate contraceptive methods while on simvastatin therapy [see Contraindications (4) 
and Use in Specific Populations (8.1)]. Simvastatin has not been studied in patients younger than 10 
years of age, nor in pre-menarchal girls. 
8.5 Geriatric Use
Of the 2,423 patients who received ZOCOR in Phase III clinical studies and the 10,269 patients in the 
Heart Protection Study who received ZOCOR, 363 (15%) and 5,366 (52%), respectively were ≥65 years 
old. In HPS, 615 (6%) were ≥75 years old. No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were 
observed between these subjects and younger subjects, and other reported clinical experience has not 
identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients, but greater sensitivity of 
some older individuals cannot be ruled out. Since advanced age (≥65 years) is a predisposing factor for 
myopathy, ZOCOR should be prescribed with caution in the elderly. [See Clinical Pharmacology (12.3).]
A pharmacokinetic study with simvastatin showed the mean plasma level of statin activity to be 
approximately 45% higher in elderly patients between 70-78 years of age compared with patients 
between 18-30 years of age. In 4S, 1,021 (23%) of 4,444 patients were 65 or older. Lipid-lowering 
efficacy was at least as great in elderly patients compared with younger patients, and ZOCOR 
significantly reduced total mortality and CHD mortality in elderly patients with a history of CHD. In HPS, 
52% of patients were elderly (4,891 patients 65-69 years and 5,806 patients 70 years or older). The 
relative risk reductions of CHD death, non-fatal MI, coronary and non-coronary revascularization 
procedures, and stroke were similar in older and younger patients [see Clinical Studies (14.1)]. In HPS, 
among 32,145 patients entering the active run-in period, there were 2 cases of 
myopathy/rhabdomyolysis; these patients were aged 67 and 73. Of the 7 cases of 
myopathy/rhabdomyolysis among 10,269 patients allocated to simvastatin, 4 were aged 65 or more (at 
baseline), of whom one was over 75. There were no overall differences in safety between older and 
younger patients in either 4S or HPS. 
3	 Manson, J.M., Freyssinges, C., Ducrocq, M.B., Stephenson, W.P., Postmarketing Surveillance of Lovastatin and Simvastatin 
Exposure During Pregnancy, Reproductive Toxicology, 10(6):439-446, 1996. 
USPI-T-07331210 	11 
Reference ID: 3209081 
  
 
 
 
  
Because advanced age (≥65 years) is a predisposing factor for myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis, 
ZOCOR should be prescribed with caution in the elderly. In a clinical trial of patients treated with 
simvastatin 80 mg/day, patients ≥65 years of age had an increased risk of myopathy, including 
rhabdomyolysis, compared to patients <65 years of age. [See Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and 
Clinical Pharmacology (12.3).]
8.6 Renal Impairment 
Caution should be exercised when ZOCOR is administered to patients with severe renal impairment.
[See Dosage and Administration (2.6).] 
8.7 Hepatic Impairment 
ZOCOR is contraindicated in patients with active liver disease which may include unexplained 
persistent elevations in hepatic transaminase levels [see Contraindications (4) and Warnings and 
Precautions (5.2)]. 
10 OVERDOSAGE 
Significant lethality was observed in mice after a single oral dose of 9 g/m2. No evidence of lethality 
was observed in rats or dogs treated with doses of 30 and 100 g/m2, respectively. No specific diagnostic 
signs were observed in rodents. At these doses the only signs seen in dogs were emesis and mucoid 
stools.
A few cases of overdosage with ZOCOR have been reported; the maximum dose taken was 3.6 g. All 
patients recovered without sequelae. Supportive measures should be taken in the event of an overdose. 
The dialyzability of simvastatin and its metabolites in man is not known at present. 
11 DESCRIPTION 
ZOCOR (simvastatin) is a lipid-lowering agent that is derived synthetically from a fermentation product 
of Aspergillus terreus. After oral ingestion, simvastatin, which is an inactive lactone, is hydrolyzed to the 
corresponding β-hydroxyacid form. This is an inhibitor of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A 
(HMG-CoA) reductase. This enzyme catalyzes the conversion of HMG-CoA to mevalonate, which is an 
early and rate-limiting step in the biosynthesis of cholesterol. 
Simvastatin is butanoic acid, 2,2-dimethyl-,1,2,3,7,8,8a-hexahydro-3,7-dimethyl-8-[2-(tetrahydro-4­
hydroxy-6-oxo-2H-pyran-2-yl)-ethyl]-1-naphthalenyl ester, [1S-[1α,3α,7β,8β(2S*,4S*),-8aβ]]. The empirical 
formula of simvastatin is C25H38O5 and its molecular weight is 418.57. Its structural formula is: 
Simvastatin is a white to off-white, nonhygroscopic, crystalline powder that is practically insoluble in 
water, and freely soluble in chloroform, methanol and ethanol. 
Tablets ZOCOR for oral administration contain either 5 mg, 10 mg, 20 mg, 40 mg or 80 mg of 
simvastatin and the following inactive ingredients: ascorbic acid, citric acid, hydroxypropyl cellulose, 
hypromellose, iron oxides, lactose, magnesium stearate, microcrystalline cellulose, starch, talc, and 
titanium dioxide. Butylated hydroxyanisole is added as a preservative. 
USPI-T-07331210 12 

Reference ID: 3209081 
  
 
 
 
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 
12.1 Mechanism of Action 
Simvastatin is a prodrug and is hydrolyzed to its active β-hydroxyacid form, simvastatin acid, after 
administration. Simvastatin is a specific inhibitor of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) 
reductase, the enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of HMG-CoA to mevalonate, an early and rate
limiting step in the biosynthetic pathway for cholesterol. In addition, simvastatin reduces VLDL and TG 
and increases HDL-C. 
12.2 Pharmacodynamics 
Epidemiological studies have demonstrated that elevated levels of total-C, LDL-C, as well as 
decreased levels of HDL-C are associated with the development of atherosclerosis and increased 
cardiovascular risk. Lowering LDL-C decreases this risk. However, the independent effect of raising 
HDL-C or lowering TG on the risk of coronary and cardiovascular morbidity and mortality has not been 
determined. 
12.3 Pharmacokinetics
Simvastatin is a lactone that is readily hydrolyzed in vivo to the corresponding β-hydroxyacid, a potent 
inhibitor of HMG-CoA reductase. Inhibition of HMG-CoA reductase is the basis for an assay in 
pharmacokinetic studies of the β-hydroxyacid metabolites (active inhibitors) and, following base 
hydrolysis, active plus latent inhibitors (total inhibitors) in plasma following administration of simvastatin. 
Following an oral dose of 14C-labeled simvastatin in man, 13% of the dose was excreted in urine and 
60% in feces. Plasma concentrations of total radioactivity (simvastatin plus 14C-metabolites) peaked at 4 
hours and declined rapidly to about 10% of peak by 12 hours postdose. Since simvastatin undergoes 
extensive first-pass extraction in the liver, the availability of the drug to the general circulation is low 
(<5%). 
Both simvastatin and its β-hydroxyacid metabolite are highly bound (approximately 95%) to human 
plasma proteins. Rat studies indicate that when radiolabeled simvastatin was administered, simvastatin­
derived radioactivity crossed the blood-brain barrier. 
The major active metabolites of simvastatin present in human plasma are the β-hydroxyacid of 
simvastatin and its 6′-hydroxy, 6′-hydroxymethyl, and 6′-exomethylene derivatives. Peak plasma 
concentrations of both active and total inhibitors were attained within 1.3 to 2.4 hours postdose. While the 
recommended therapeutic dose range is 5 to 40 mg/day, there was no substantial deviation from linearity 
of AUC of inhibitors in the general circulation with an increase in dose to as high as 120 mg. Relative to 
the fasting state, the plasma profile of inhibitors was not affected when simvastatin was administered 
immediately before an American Heart Association recommended low-fat meal. 
In a study including 16 elderly patients between 70 and 78 years of age who received ZOCOR 
40 mg/day, the mean plasma level of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitory activity was increased approximately 
45% compared with 18 patients between 18-30 years of age. Clinical study experience in the elderly 
(n=1522), suggests that there were no overall differences in safety between elderly and younger patients 
[see Use in Specific Populations (8.5)]. 
Kinetic studies with another statin, having a similar principal route of elimination, have suggested that 
for a given dose level higher systemic exposure may be achieved in patients with severe renal 
insufficiency (as measured by creatinine clearance). 
Although the mechanism is not fully understood, cyclosporine has been shown to increase the AUC of 
statins. The increase in AUC for simvastatin acid is presumably due, in part, to inhibition of CYP3A4. 
The risk of myopathy is increased by high levels of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitory activity in plasma. 
Inhibitors of CYP3A4 can raise the plasma levels of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitory activity and increase 
the risk of myopathy [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Drug Interactions (7.1)]. 
USPI-T-07331210 13 

Reference ID: 3209081 
  
 
  
 
   
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
TABLE 3 

Effect of Coadministered Drugs or Grapefruit Juice on Simvastatin Systemic Exposure 

Coadministered Drug 
or Grapefruit Juice 
Dosing of Coadministered 
Drug or Grapefruit Juice 
Dosing of 
Simvastatin 
Geometric Mean Ratio 
(Ratio* with / without  
coadministered drug) 
No Effect = 1.00 
 AUC Cmax 
Contraindicated with simvastatin [see Contraindications (4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]
Telithromycin† 200 mg QD for 4 days 80 mg simvastatin acid‡ 
simvastatin  
12 
8.9 
15 
5.3 
Nelfinavir† 1250 mg BID for 14 days 20 mg QD for 28 
days 
simvastatin acid‡ 
simvastatin  6 6.2 
Itraconazole† 200 mg QD for 4 days 80 mg simvastatin acid‡ 
simvastatin  
13.1 
13.1 
Posaconazole 100 mg (oral suspension) 
QD for 13 days 
200 mg (oral suspension) 
QD for 13 days 
40 mg 
40 mg 
simvastatin acid 
simvastatin 
simvastatin acid 
simvastatin 
7.3 
10.3 
8.5 
10.6 
9.2 
9.4 
9.5 
11.4 
Gemfibrozil 600 mg BID for 3 days 40 mg simvastatin acid 
simvastatin 
2.85 
1.35 
2.18 
0.91 
Avoid grapefruit juice with simvastatin [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]
Grapefruit Juice§ 
(high dose) 
200 mL of double-strength 
TID¶ 
60 mg single dose simvastatin acid  
simvastatin  
7 
16 
Grapefruit Juice§ 
(low dose) 
8 oz (about 237mL) of 
single-strength# 
20 mg single dose simvastatin acid  
simvastatin  
1.3 
1.9 
Avoid taking with >10 mg simvastatin, based on clinical and/or post-marketing experience [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]
Verapamil SR 240 mg QD Days 1-7 then 
240 mg BID on Days 8-10 
80 mg on Day 10 simvastatin acid  
simvastatin  
2.3 
2.5 
2.4 
2.1 
Diltiazem 120 mg BID for 10 days 80 mg on Day 10 simvastatin acid  
simvastatin  
2.69 
3.10 
2.69 
2.88 
Diltiazem 120 mg BID for 14 days 20 mg on Day 14 simvastatin  4.6 3.6 
Dronedarone 400 mg BID for 14 days 40 mg QD 
for 14 days 
simvastatin acid 
simvastatin 
1.96 
3.90 
2.14 
3.75 
Avoid taking with >20 mg simvastatin, based on clinical and/or post-marketing experience [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] 
Amiodarone 400 mg QD for 3 days 40 mg on Day 3 simvastatin acid  
simvastatin  
1.75 
1.76 
1.72 
1.79 
Amlodipine 10 mg QD x 10 days 80 mg on Day 10 simvastatin acid  
simvastatin  
1.58 
1.77 
1.56 
1.47 
Ranolazine SR 1000 mg BID for 7 days 80 mg on Day 1 and 
Days 6-9 
simvastatin acid 
simvastatin 
2.26 
1.86 
2.28 
1.75 
No dosing adjustments required for the following: 
Fenofibrate 160 mg QD X 14 days 80 mg QD on Days
8-14 
simvastatin acid  
simvastatin  
0.64 
0.89 
0.89 
0.83 
Niacin  
extended-release Þ 
2 g single dose 20 mg single dose simvastatin acid  
simvastatin  
1.6 
1.4 
1.84 
1.08 
Propranolol 80 mg single dose 80 mg single dose total inhibitor 
active inhibitor 
0.79 
0.79 
↓ from
33.6 to 
21.1 
ng·eq/mL 
↓ from
7.0 to 4.7 
ng·eq/mL 
*	 Results based on a chemical assay except results with propranolol as indicated. 
† 	 Results could be representative of the following CYP3A4 inhibitors: ketoconazole, erythromycin, clarithromycin, HIV protease inhibitors, and 
nefazodone. 
‡ Simvastatin acid refers to the β-hydroxyacid of simvastatin. 

§ The effect of amounts of grapefruit juice between those used in these two studies on simvastatin pharmacokinetics has not been studied. 

¶ Double-strength: one can of frozen concentrate diluted with one can of water. Grapefruit juice was administered TID for 2 days, and 200 mL 

together with single dose simvastatin and 30 and 90 minutes following single dose simvastatin on Day 3. 
# Single-strength: one can of frozen concentrate diluted with 3 cans of water. Grapefruit juice was administered with breakfast for 3 days, and 
simvastatin was administered in the evening on Day 3. 
Þ	 Because Chinese patients have an increased risk for myopathy with simvastatin coadministered with lipid-modifying doses (≥ 1 gram/day
niacin) of niacin-containing products, and the risk is dose-related, Chinese patients should not receive simvastatin 80 mg coadministered with 
lipid-modifying doses of niacin-containing products [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Drug Interactions (7.4)]. 
In a study of 12 healthy volunteers, simvastatin at the 80-mg dose had no effect on the metabolism of 
the probe cytochrome P450 isoform 3A4 (CYP3A4) substrates midazolam and erythromycin. This 
USPI-T-07331210 	14 

Reference ID: 3209081 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
indicates that simvastatin is not an inhibitor of CYP3A4, and, therefore, is not expected to affect the 
plasma levels of other drugs metabolized by CYP3A4. 
Coadministration of simvastatin (40 mg QD for 10 days) resulted in an increase in the maximum mean 
levels of cardioactive digoxin (given as a single 0.4 mg dose on day 10) by approximately 0.3 ng/mL. 
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY
13.1 Carcinogenesis, Mutagenesis, Impairment of Fertility
In a 72-week carcinogenicity study, mice were administered daily doses of simvastatin of 25, 100, and 
400 mg/kg body weight, which resulted in mean plasma drug levels approximately 1, 4, and 8 times 
higher than the mean human plasma drug level, respectively (as total inhibitory activity based on AUC) 
after an 80-mg oral dose. Liver carcinomas were significantly increased in high-dose females and mid- 
and high-dose males with a maximum incidence of 90% in males. The incidence of adenomas of the liver 
was significantly increased in mid- and high-dose females. Drug treatment also significantly increased the 
incidence of lung adenomas in mid- and high-dose males and females. Adenomas of the Harderian gland 
(a gland of the eye of rodents) were significantly higher in high-dose mice than in controls. No evidence of 
a tumorigenic effect was observed at 25 mg/kg/day. 
In a separate 92-week carcinogenicity study in mice at doses up to 25 mg/kg/day, no evidence of a 
tumorigenic effect was observed (mean plasma drug levels were 1 times higher than humans given 
80 mg simvastatin as measured by AUC). 
In a two-year study in rats at 25 mg/kg/day, there was a statistically significant increase in the 
incidence of thyroid follicular adenomas in female rats exposed to approximately 11 times higher levels of 
simvastatin than in humans given 80 mg simvastatin (as measured by AUC). 
A second two-year rat carcinogenicity study with doses of 50 and 100 mg/kg/day produced 
hepatocellular adenomas and carcinomas (in female rats at both doses and in males at 100 mg/kg/day). 
Thyroid follicular cell adenomas were increased in males and females at both doses; thyroid follicular cell 
carcinomas were increased in females at 100 mg/kg/day. The increased incidence of thyroid neoplasms 
appears to be consistent with findings from other statins. These treatment levels represented plasma 
drug levels (AUC) of approximately 7 and 15 times (males) and 22 and 25 times (females) the mean 
human plasma drug exposure after an 80 milligram daily dose. 
No evidence of mutagenicity was observed in a microbial mutagenicity (Ames) test with or without rat 
or mouse liver metabolic activation. In addition, no evidence of damage to genetic material was noted in 
an in vitro alkaline elution assay using rat hepatocytes, a V-79 mammalian cell forward mutation study, an 
in vitro chromosome aberration study in CHO cells, or an in vivo chromosomal aberration assay in mouse 
bone marrow. 
There was decreased fertility in male rats treated with simvastatin for 34 weeks at 25 mg/kg body 
weight (4 times the maximum human exposure level, based on AUC, in patients receiving 80 mg/day); 
however, this effect was not observed during a subsequent fertility study in which simvastatin was 
administered at this same dose level to male rats for 11 weeks (the entire cycle of spermatogenesis 
including epididymal maturation). No microscopic changes were observed in the testes of rats from either 
study. At 180 mg/kg/day, (which produces exposure levels 22 times higher than those in humans taking 
80 mg/day based on surface area, mg/m2), seminiferous tubule degeneration (necrosis and loss of 
spermatogenic epithelium) was observed. In dogs, there was drug-related testicular atrophy, decreased 
spermatogenesis, spermatocytic degeneration and giant cell formation at 10 mg/kg/day, (approximately 2 
times the human exposure, based on AUC, at 80 mg/day). The clinical significance of these findings is 
unclear. 
13.2 Animal Toxicology and/or Pharmacology
CNS Toxicity
Optic nerve degeneration was seen in clinically normal dogs treated with simvastatin for 14 weeks at 
180 mg/kg/day, a dose that produced mean plasma drug levels about 12 times higher than the mean 
plasma drug level in humans taking 80 mg/day. 
A chemically similar drug in this class also produced optic nerve degeneration (Wallerian degeneration 
of retinogeniculate fibers) in clinically normal dogs in a dose-dependent fashion starting at 60 mg/kg/day, 
a dose that produced mean plasma drug levels about 30 times higher than the mean plasma drug level in 
USPI-T-07331210 15 

Reference ID: 3209081 
  
 
                                                        
humans taking the highest recommended dose (as measured by total enzyme inhibitory activity). This 
same drug also produced vestibulocochlear Wallerian-like degeneration and retinal ganglion cell 
chromatolysis in dogs treated for 14 weeks at 180 mg/kg/day, a dose that resulted in a mean plasma drug 
level similar to that seen with the 60 mg/kg/day dose. 
CNS vascular lesions, characterized by perivascular hemorrhage and edema, mononuclear cell 
infiltration of perivascular spaces, perivascular fibrin deposits and necrosis of small vessels were seen in 
dogs treated with simvastatin at a dose of 360 mg/kg/day, a dose that produced mean plasma drug levels 
that were about 14 times higher than the mean plasma drug levels in humans taking 80 mg/day. Similar 
CNS vascular lesions have been observed with several other drugs of this class. 
There were cataracts in female rats after two years of treatment with 50 and 100 mg/kg/day (22 and 
25 times the human AUC at 80 mg/day, respectively) and in dogs after three months at 90 mg/kg/day 
(19 times) and at two years at 50 mg/kg/day (5 times). 
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 
14.1 Clinical Studies in Adults
Reductions in Risk of CHD Mortality and Cardiovascular Events 
In 4S, the effect of therapy with ZOCOR on total mortality was assessed in 4,444 patients with CHD 
and baseline total cholesterol 212-309 mg/dL (5.5-8.0 mmol/L). In this multicenter, randomized, double-
blind, placebo-controlled study, patients were treated with standard care, including diet, and either 
ZOCOR 20-40 mg/day (n=2,221) or placebo (n=2,223) for a median duration of 5.4 years. Over the 
course of the study, treatment with ZOCOR led to mean reductions in total-C, LDL-C and TG of 25%, 
35%, and 10%, respectively, and a mean increase in HDL-C of 8%. ZOCOR significantly reduced the risk 
of mortality by 30% (p=0.0003, 182 deaths in the ZOCOR group vs 256 deaths in the placebo group). The 
risk of CHD mortality was significantly reduced by 42% (p=0.00001, 111 vs 189 deaths). There was no 
statistically significant difference between groups in non-cardiovascular mortality. ZOCOR significantly 
decreased the risk of having major coronary events (CHD mortality plus hospital-verified and silent non­
fatal myocardial infarction [MI]) by 34% (p<0.00001, 431 vs 622 patients with one or more events). The 
risk of having a hospital-verified non-fatal MI was reduced by 37%. ZOCOR significantly reduced the risk 
for undergoing myocardial revascularization procedures (coronary artery bypass grafting or percutaneous 
transluminal coronary angioplasty) by 37% (p<0.00001, 252 vs 383 patients). ZOCOR significantly 
reduced the risk of fatal plus non-fatal cerebrovascular events (combined stroke and transient ischemic 
attacks) by 28% (p=0.033, 75 vs 102 patients). ZOCOR reduced the risk of major coronary events to a 
similar extent across the range of baseline total and LDL cholesterol levels. Because there were only 53 
female deaths, the effect of ZOCOR on mortality in women could not be adequately assessed. However, 
ZOCOR significantly lessened the risk of having major coronary events by 34% (60 vs 91 women with 
one or more event). The randomization was stratified by angina alone (21% of each treatment group) or a 
previous MI. Because there were only 57 deaths among the patients with angina alone at baseline, the 
effect of ZOCOR on mortality in this subgroup could not be adequately assessed. However, trends in 
reduced coronary mortality, major coronary events and revascularization procedures were consistent 
between this group and the total study cohort. Additionally, ZOCOR resulted in similar decreases in 
relative risk for total mortality, CHD mortality, and major coronary events in elderly patients (≥65 years), 
compared with younger patients. 
The Heart Protection Study (HPS) was a large, multi-center, placebo-controlled, double-blind study 
with a mean duration of 5 years conducted in 20,536 patients (10,269 on ZOCOR 40 mg and 10,267 on 
placebo). Patients were allocated to treatment using a covariate adaptive method4 which took into 
account the distribution of 10 important baseline characteristics of patients already enrolled and 
minimized the imbalance of those characteristics across the groups. Patients had a mean age of 64 years 
(range 40-80 years), were 97% Caucasian and were at high risk of developing a major coronary event 
because of existing CHD (65%), diabetes (Type 2, 26%; Type 1, 3%), history of stroke or other 
cerebrovascular disease (16%), peripheral vessel disease (33%), or hypertension in males ≥65 years 
(6%). At baseline, 3,421 patients (17%) had LDL-C levels below 100 mg/dL, of whom 953 (5%) had LDL­
4	 D.R. Taves, Minimization: a new method of assigning patients to treatment and control groups. Clin. Pharmacol. Ther. 15 (1974),
pp. 443-453
USPI-T-07331210 	16 
Reference ID: 3209081 
  
 
  
 
  
 
     
 
     
     
 
  
 
 
 
C levels below 80 mg/dL; 7,068 patients (34%) had levels between 100 and 130 mg/dL; and 10,047 
patients (49%) had levels greater than 130 mg/dL. 
The HPS results showed that ZOCOR 40 mg/day significantly reduced: total and CHD mortality; non­
fatal MI, stroke, and revascularization procedures (coronary and non-coronary) (see Table 4). 
TABLE 4 

Summary of Heart Protection Study Results 

Endpoint ZOCOR
(N=10,269) 
n (%)† 
Placebo
(N=10,267) 
n (%)† 
Risk Reduction 
(%) (95% CI) 
p-Value 
Primary
Mortality
CHD mortality
 1,328 (12.9) 
587 (5.7) 
1,507 (14.7) 
707 (6.9) 
13 (6-19) 
18 (8-26) 
p=0.0003 
p=0.0005 
Secondary 
Non-fatal MI 
Stroke 
357 (3.5) 
444 (4.3) 
574 (5.6) 
585 (5.7) 
38 (30-46) 
25 (15-34) 
p<0.0001 
p<0.0001 
Tertiary
Coronary revascularization 
Peripheral and other non-coronary
revascularization 
513 (5) 
450 (4.4) 
725 (7.1) 
532 (5.2) 
30 (22-38) 
16 (5-26) 
p<0.0001 
p=0.006 
† n = number of patients with indicated event 
Two composite endpoints were defined in order to have sufficient events to assess relative risk 
reductions across a range of baseline characteristics (see Figure 1). A composite of major coronary 
events (MCE) was comprised of CHD mortality and non-fatal MI (analyzed by time-to-first event; 898 
patients treated with ZOCOR had events and 1,212 patients on placebo had events). A composite of 
major vascular events (MVE) was comprised of MCE, stroke and revascularization procedures including 
coronary, peripheral and other non-coronary procedures (analyzed by time-to-first event; 2,033 patients 
treated with ZOCOR had events and 2,585 patients on placebo had events). Significant relative risk 
reductions were observed for both composite endpoints (27% for MCE and 24% for MVE, p<0.0001). 
Treatment with ZOCOR produced significant relative risk reductions for all components of the composite 
endpoints. The risk reductions produced by ZOCOR in both MCE and MVE were evident and consistent 
regardless of cardiovascular disease related medical history at study entry (i.e., CHD alone; or peripheral 
vascular disease, cerebrovascular disease, diabetes or treated hypertension, with or without CHD), 
gender, age, creatinine levels up to the entry limit of 2.3 mg/dL, baseline levels of LDL-C, HDL-C, 
apolipoprotein B and A-1, baseline concomitant cardiovascular medications (i.e., aspirin, beta blockers, or 
calcium channel blockers), smoking status, alcohol intake, or obesity. Diabetics showed risk reductions 
for MCE and MVE due to ZOCOR treatment regardless of baseline HbA1c levels or obesity with the 
greatest effects seen for diabetics without CHD. 
USPI-T-07331210 17 

Reference ID: 3209081 
  
      
 
         
    
             
                
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
        
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1 

The Effects of Treatment with ZOCOR on Major Vascular Events and Major Coronary Events in HPS 

Favors Favors 
ZOCOR Placebo 
Major Vascular Events Major Coronary Events
  Incidence (%)   Incidence (%)Baseline Favors Favors 
ZOCOR Placebo Characteristics N ZOCOR Placebo ZOCOR Placebo 
All patients 20,536 19.8 25.2
  8.7 11.8
 
Without CHD  7,150 16.1 20.8
  5.1  8.0

With CHD 13,386 21.8 27.5
 10.7 13.9
 
Diabetes mellitus  5,963 20.2 25.1
 9.4 12.6

Without CHD  3,982 13.8 18.6
  5.5  8.4

With CHD  1,981 33.4 37.8
 17.4 21.0

Without diabetes mellitus 14,573 19.6 25.2
  8.5 11.5
 
Peripheral vascular disease  6,748 26.4 32.7
 10.9 13.8

Without CHD  2,701 24.7 30.5
  7.0 10.1

With CHD  4,047 27.6 34.3
 13.4 16.4

Cerebrovascular disease  3,280 24.7 29.8
 10.4 13.3

Without CHD  1,820 18.7 23.6
  5.9  8.7

With CHD  1,460 32.4 37.4
 16.2 19.0

Gender
 
Female  5,082 14.4 17.7
  5.2  7.8

Male 15,454 21.6 27.6
  9.9 13.1
 
Age (years)

≥  40 to < 65  9,839 16.9 22.1
 6.2  9.2

≥  65 to < 70  4,891 20.9 27.2
 9.5 13.1

≥ 70  5,806 23.6 28.7
 12.4 15.2

LDL-cholesterol (mg/dL)
 
<  100  3,421 16.4 21.0
 7.5  9.8

≥ 100 to < 130  7,068 18.9 24.7
  7.9 11.9

≥  130 10,047 21.6 26.9
 9.7 12.4
 
HDL-cholesterol (mg/dL)
 
< 35  7,176 22.6 29.9
 10.2 14.4

≥  35 to < 43  5,666 20.0 25.1
 8.9 11.7

≥ 43  7,694 17.0 20.9
 7.3  9.4

0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 1.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 1.2 
Risk Ratio ( 95% CI ) Risk Ratio ( 95% CI ) 
N = number of patients in each subgroup. The inverted triangles are point estimates of the relative risk, with their 95% confidence intervals 
represented as a line. The area of a triangle is proportional to the number of patients with MVE or MCE in the subgroup relative to the number with 
MVE or MCE, respectively, in the entire study population. The vertical solid line represents a relative risk of one. The vertical dashed line represents 
the point estimate of relative risk in the entire study population.  
Angiographic Studies 
In the Multicenter Anti-Atheroma Study, the effect of simvastatin on atherosclerosis was assessed by 
quantitative coronary angiography in hypercholesterolemic patients with CHD. In this randomized, 
double-blind, controlled study, patients were treated with simvastatin 20 mg/day or placebo. Angiograms 
were evaluated at baseline, two and four years. The co-primary study endpoints were mean change per-
patient in minimum and mean lumen diameters, indicating focal and diffuse disease, respectively. 
ZOCOR significantly slowed the progression of lesions as measured in the Year 4 angiogram by both 
parameters, as well as by change in percent diameter stenosis. In addition, simvastatin significantly 
decreased the proportion of patients with new lesions and with new total occlusions. 
Modifications of Lipid Profiles 
Primary Hyperlipidemia (Fredrickson type lla and llb) 
ZOCOR has been shown to be effective in reducing total-C and LDL-C in heterozygous familial and 
non-familial forms of hyperlipidemia and in mixed hyperlipidemia. Maximal to near maximal response is 
generally achieved within 4-6 weeks and maintained during chronic therapy. ZOCOR consistently and 
significantly decreased total-C, LDL-C, total-C/HDL-C ratio, and LDL-C/HDL-C ratio; ZOCOR also 
decreased TG and increased HDL-C (see Table 5). 
USPI-T-07331210 18 

Reference ID: 3209081 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
        
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE 5 

Mean Response in Patients with Primary Hyperlipidemia and Combined (mixed) Hyperlipidemia 

(Mean Percent Change from Baseline After 6 to 24 Weeks)  

TREATMENT 	 N TOTAL-C LDL-C HDL-C TG† 
Lower Dose Comparative Study ‡
 
(Mean % Change at Week 6)
 
ZOCOR 5 mg q.p.m. 109 -19 -26 10 -12 

ZOCOR 10 mg q.p.m. 110 -23 -30 12 -15 

Scandinavian Simvastatin Survival Study §
 
(Mean % Change at Week 6)
 
Placebo 2223 -1 -1 0 -2 

ZOCOR 20 mg q.p.m. 	 2221 -28 -38 8 -19 
Upper Dose Comparative Study || 
(Mean % Change Averaged at 
Weeks 18 and 24) 
ZOCOR 40 mg q.p.m. 	 433 -31 -41 9 -18 
ZOCOR 80 mg q.p.m. ¶	 664 -36 -47 8 -24 
Multi-Center Combined Hyperlipidemia Study †† 
(Mean % Change at Week 6)
Placebo 125 1 2 3 -4 
ZOCOR 40 mg q.p.m. 123 -25 -29 13 -28 
ZOCOR 80 mg q.p.m. 124 -31 -36 16 -33 
† 	 median percent change
‡ mean baseline LDL-C 244 mg/dL and median baseline TG 168 mg/dL 
§ mean baseline LDL-C 188 mg/dL and median baseline TG 128 mg/dL 
|| mean baseline LDL-C 226 mg/dL and median baseline TG 156 mg/dL 
¶ 21% and 36% median reduction in TG in patients with TG ≤200 mg/dL and TG >200 mg/dL, respectively. Patients with TG >350 mg/dL were 
excluded 
†† mean baseline LDL-C 156 mg/dL and median baseline TG 391 mg/dL. 
Hypertriglyceridemia (Fredrickson type lV) 
The results of a subgroup analysis in 74 patients with type lV hyperlipidemia from a 130-patient, 
double-blind, placebo-controlled, 3-period crossover study are presented in Table 6.  
TABLE 6
 
Six-week, Lipid-lowering Effects of Simvastatin in Type lV Hyperlipidemia 

Median Percent Change (25th and 75th percentile) from Baseline†
 
TREATMENT N Total-C LDL-C HDL-C TG VLDL-C Non-HDL-C 
Placebo 74 +2 +1 +3 -9 -7 +1 
(-7, +7) (-8, +14) (-3, +10) (-25, +13) (-25, +11) (-9, +8) 
ZOCOR 40 mg/day 74 -25 
(-34, -19) 
-28 
(-40, -17) 
+11 
(+5, +23) 
-29 
(-43, -16) 
-37 
(-54, -23) 
-32 
(-42, -23) 
ZOCOR 80 mg/day 74 -32 
(-38, -24) 
-37 
(-46, -26) 
+15 
(+5, +23) 
-34 
(-45, -18) 
-41 
(-57, -28) 
-38 
(-49, -32) 
† 	 The median baseline values (mg/dL) for the patients in this study were: total-C = 254, LDL-C = 135, HDL-C = 36, TG = 404, VLDL-C = 83, and 
non-HDL-C = 215. 
Dysbetalipoproteinemia (Fredrickson type lll) 
The results of a subgroup analysis in 7 patients with type lll hyperlipidemia (dysbetalipoproteinemia) 
(apo E2/2) (VLDL-C/TG>0.25) from a 130-patient, double-blind, placebo-controlled, 3-period crossover 
study are presented in Table 7. 
USPI-T-07331210 	19 
Reference ID: 3209081 
 
 
 
 
          
   
 
     
 
  
       
 
  
       
 
 
 
 
TABLE 7 
Six-week, Lipid-lowering Effects of Simvastatin in Type lll Hyperlipidemia 
Median Percent Change (min, max) from Baseline† 
TREATMENT N Total-C LDL-C + IDL HDL-C TG VLDL-C + IDL Non-HDL-C 
Placebo 7 -8 
(-24, +34) 
-8 
(-27, +23) 
-2 
(-21, +16) 
+4 
(-22, +90) 
-4 
(-28, +78) 
-8 
(-26, -39) 
ZOCOR 40 mg/day 7 -50 
(-66, -39) 
-50 
(-60, -31) 
+7 
(-8, +23) 
-41 
(-74, -16) 
-58 
(-90, -37) 
-57 
(-72, -44) 
ZOCOR 80 mg/day 7 -52 
(-55, -41) 
-51 
(-57, -28) 
+7 
(-5, +29) 
-38 
(-58, +2) 
-60 
(-72, -39) 
-59 
(-61, -46) 
† The median baseline values (mg/dL) were: total-C = 324, LDL-C = 121, HDL-C = 31, TG = 411, VLDL-C = 170, and non-HDL-C = 291. 
Homozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia 
In a controlled clinical study, 12 patients 15-39 years of age with homozygous familial 
hypercholesterolemia received simvastatin 40 mg/day in a single dose or in 3 divided doses, or 
80 mg/day in 3 divided doses. In 11 patients with reductions in LDL-C, the mean LDL-C changes for the 
40- and 80-mg doses were 14% (range 8% to 23%, median 12%) and 30% (range 14% to 46%, median 
29%), respectively. One patient had an increase of 15% in LDL-C. Another patient with absent LDL-C 
receptor function had an LDL-C reduction of 41% with the 80-mg dose. 
Endocrine Function 
In clinical studies, simvastatin did not impair adrenal reserve or significantly reduce basal plasma 
cortisol concentration. Small reductions from baseline in basal plasma testosterone in men were 
observed in clinical studies with simvastatin, an effect also observed with other statins and the bile acid 
sequestrant cholestyramine. There was no effect on plasma gonadotropin levels. In a placebo-controlled, 
12-week study there was no significant effect of simvastatin 80 mg on the plasma testosterone response 
to human chorionic gonadotropin. In another 24-week study, simvastatin 20-40 mg had no detectable 
effect on spermatogenesis. In 4S, in which 4,444 patients were randomized to simvastatin 20-40 mg/day 
or placebo for a median duration of 5.4 years, the incidence of male sexual adverse events in the two 
treatment groups was not significantly different. Because of these factors, the small changes in plasma 
testosterone are unlikely to be clinically significant. The effects, if any, on the pituitary-gonadal axis in pre­
menopausal women are unknown. 
14.2 Clinical Studies in Adolescents
In a double-blind, placebo-controlled study, 175 patients (99 adolescent boys and 76 post-menarchal 
girls) 10-17 years of age (mean age 14.1 years) with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HeFH) 
were randomized to simvastatin (n=106) or placebo (n=67) for 24 weeks (base study). Inclusion in the 
study required a baseline LDL-C level between 160 and 400 mg/dL and at least one parent with an LDL­
C level >189 mg/dL. The dosage of simvastatin (once daily in the evening) was 10 mg for the first 8 
weeks, 20 mg for the second 8 weeks, and 40 mg thereafter. In a 24-week extension, 144 patients 
elected to continue therapy with simvastatin 40 mg or placebo. 
ZOCOR significantly decreased plasma levels of total-C, LDL-C, and Apo B (see Table 8). Results 
from the extension at 48 weeks were comparable to those observed in the base study. 
USPI-T-07331210 20 

Reference ID: 3209081 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
  
 
   
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dosage 
TABLE 8 
Lipid-Lowering Effects of Simvastatin in Adolescent Patients with Heterozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia 
(Mean Percent Change from Baseline) 
Duration N Total-C  LDL-C HDL-C TG† Apo B 
Placebo 24 Weeks 67 % Change from Baseline 
(95% CI) 
Mean baseline, mg/dL 
(SD) 
1.6 
(-2.2, 5.3) 
278.6 
(51.8) 
1.1 
(-3.4, 5.5) 
211.9 
(49.0) 
3.6 
(-0.7, 8.0) 
46.9 
(11.9) 
-3.2 
(-11.8, 5.4) 
90.0 
(50.7) 
-0.5 
(-4.7, 3.6) 
186.3 
(38.1) 
ZOCOR 24 Weeks 106 % Change from Baseline 
(95% CI) 
Mean baseline, mg/dL 
(SD) 
-26.5 
(-29.6, -23.3) 
270.2 
(44.0) 
-36.8 
(-40.5, -33.0) 
203.8 
(41.5) 
8.3 
(4.6, 11.9) 
47.7 
(9.0) 
-7.9 
(-15.8, 0.0) 
78.3 
(46.0) 
-32.4 
(-35.9, -29.0) 
179.9 
(33.8) 
† median percent change 
After 24 weeks of treatment, the mean achieved LDL-C value was 124.9 mg/dL (range: 64.0­
289.0 mg/dL) in the ZOCOR 40 mg group compared to 207.8 mg/dL (range: 128.0-334.0 mg/dL) in the 
placebo group. 
The safety and efficacy of doses above 40 mg daily have not been studied in children with HeFH. The 
long-term efficacy of simvastatin therapy in childhood to reduce morbidity and mortality in adulthood has 
not been established. 
16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING 
No. 8360 — Tablets ZOCOR 5 mg are buff, oval, film-coated tablets, coded MSD 726 on one side and 
ZOCOR 5 on the other. They are supplied as follows: 
NDC 0006-0726-31 unit of use bottles of 30.
No. 8146 — Tablets ZOCOR 10 mg are peach, oval, film-coated tablets, coded MSD 735 on one side 
and plain on the other. They are supplied as follows: 
NDC 0006-0735-31 unit of use bottles of 30
NDC 0006-0735-54 unit of use bottles of 90. 
No. 8147 — Tablets ZOCOR 20 mg are tan, oval, film-coated tablets, coded MSD 740 on one side 
and plain on the other. They are supplied as follows: 
NDC 0006-0740-31 unit of use bottles of 30
NDC 0006-0740-54 unit of use bottles of 90. 
No. 8148 — Tablets ZOCOR 40 mg are brick red, oval, film-coated tablets, coded MSD 749 on one 
side and plain on the other. They are supplied as follows: 
NDC 0006-0749-31 unit of use bottles of 30 
NDC 0006-0749-54 unit of use bottles of 90. 
No. 6577 — Tablets ZOCOR 80 mg are brick red, capsule-shaped, film-coated tablets, coded 543 on 
one side and 80 on the other. They are supplied as follows: 
NDC 0006-0543-31 unit of use bottles of 30 
NDC 0006-0543-54 unit of use bottles of 90. 
Storage 
Store between 5-30°C (41-86°F). 
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION 
Patients should be advised to adhere to their National Cholesterol Education Program (NCEP)­
recommended diet, a regular exercise program, and periodic testing of a fasting lipid panel. 
Patients should be advised about substances they should not take concomitantly with 
simvastatin [see Contraindications (4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. Patients should also 
be advised to inform other healthcare professionals prescribing a new medication or increasing 
the dose of an existing medication that they are taking ZOCOR. 
USPI-T-07331210 21 

Reference ID: 3209081 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
17.1 Muscle Pain 
All patients starting therapy with ZOCOR should be advised of the risk of myopathy, including 
rhabdomyolysis, and told to report promptly any unexplained muscle pain, tenderness or weakness 
particularly if accompanied by malaise or fever or if these muscle signs or symptoms persist after 
discontinuing ZOCOR. Patients using the 80-mg dose should be informed that the risk of myopathy,
including rhabdomyolysis, is increased with use of the 80-mg dose. The risk of myopathy, including 
rhabdomyolysis, occurring with use of ZOCOR is increased when taking certain types of medication or 
consuming grapefruit juice. Patients should discuss all medication, both prescription and over the 
counter, with their healthcare professional. 
17.2 Liver Enzymes 
It is recommended that liver function tests be performed before the initiation of ZOCOR, and thereafter 
when clinically indicated. All patients treated with ZOCOR should be advised to report promptly any 
symptoms that may indicate liver injury, including fatigue, anorexia, right upper abdominal discomfort, 
dark urine or jaundice. 
17.3 Pregnancy
Women of childbearing age should be advised to use an effective method of birth control to prevent 
pregnancy while using ZOCOR. Discuss future pregnancy plans with your patients, and discuss when to 
stop taking ZOCOR if they are trying to conceive. Patients should be advised that if they become 
pregnant they should stop taking ZOCOR and call their healthcare professional. 
17.4 Breastfeeding 
Women who are breastfeeding should not use ZOCOR. Patients who have a lipid disorder and are 
breastfeeding should be advised to discuss the options with their healthcare professional. 
By: 

MERCK SHARP & DOHME LTD. 

Cramlington, Northumberland, UK NE23 3JU 

Revised: XX/XXXX 

USPI-T-0733XXXXRXXX 

USPI-T-07331210 22 

Reference ID: 3209081 
